Let's put together a couple of quick tests to make sure that we handle these three different cases appropriately.
So inside of my roots directory, I'm going to make a new folder of underscore, underscore, test,
underscore, underscore.
And then inside that I'll make a new file of new test TS.
It has been a while since we tested out a route handler.
But remember, it's a lot easier to test a route handler than a listener or a publisher.
All we really have to do is make use of the request or the super test library.
We're also going to make sure that we get our Express app.
We're going to make requests to the Express app, and that's pretty much it.
So at the very top, we'll import request from super test and we'll also get our Express app from up
to directories.
So we can start to write out a couple of different test cases.
Maybe the first test case we should write out is make sure that we throw an error if we try to purchase
an order that does not exist.
So I'll put in a description here of it returns a 404 when purchasing an order that does not exist.
Let's write out the other test cases as well.
So we should also handle something where we are trying to pay for the order as a different user and
something around making sure that we cannot order or pay for an order after it's been cancelled.
So it.
Returns a 401.
When purchasing an order that doesn't belong to the user.
And it returns a 400.
When purchasing a cancelled order.
Okay.
So now we can write out some actual implementation for each of these.
Naturally, we will start off with the 404/1.
So inside of here, I'll put in and await.
Make a request to app.
I want to make a post request to API slash payments.
I do need to set a cookie on this thing using that global sign in function, because we are requiring
a user to be authenticated to make a request to this handler.
So we do have to call the set cookie to global sign in.
And then we're going to send along.
Some imaginary token for right now.
And in order for.
Well, nothing.
Now this order ID might end up throwing some kind of error.
When we make a query with it, we might get some kind of error from Mongoose saying, Hey, sorry,
but this thing is not an actual mongoose ID or MongoDB ID.
So rather than throwing in a gibberish mongodb ID right there, order ID, let's generate a real looking
ID using mongoose once again at the very top I will import Mongoose.
The Mongoose, and therefore the order ID will throw in mongoose types.
Object ID to x string.
And then after we send that request off, we will expect to get back a44.
And that should be it.
Let's save this right away and make sure that this test succeeds.
Back inside my terminal.
I still have all my tests running.
It looks like that test just passed as usual.
Let's try to make it actually fail.
So I'm going to send along.
I'll go back over to my handler and I'm going to remove that check to make sure that we actually have
in order.
You'll notice that the other checks right here start to fail as well.
So I'll comment those out temporarily.
So now our test should fail, saying that we get back a status code of 200 instead of the expected 404.
And that is exactly what we get.
So I feel like the test we just wrote is probably working as expected.
All right.
So let's take care of the other two cases.
So next up is the 401.
When purchasing an order when this thing does not belong to us.
You might think they were going to have to create two users to test this out or something like that.
We really don't.
We really just have to create one order, save it into the database with a realistic looking user ID
and then just make a request and try to pay for that order as any arbitrary user.
And we will make sure that we get back a 401.
So first things first.
We do have to create a real order and save it to the database.
For that, we have to make use of our order model.
Let's import it at the very top.
I'm going to import order from up to directories.
Models order.
Then down inside of our test, we'll do an.
Order is a wait or see me.
Order, dot build.
There we go.
No a weight statement just yet.
And then we do have to get this thing a couple of different properties unfortunately.
So we have to give it the ID version, user ID price and status.
So the idea we do want this thing to look realistic.
So we'll throw in a mongoose types object ID to hex string.
For the user ID?
Well, this can be any ID whatsoever, but let's make it look realistic just for tests sake.
Again, not important.
We can have this thing be gibberish if we want it to, but I'll just make it look like a real ID.
I'm going to hard code the version to be zero.
I will hardcore the price to 20 and then finally our status to set this.
We do need to import our order status enum.
We'll make sure I do that at the top from our common module.
Then we can set the status right here as order status dot created.
After we create the order, we'll then save it within a wait order.
Save.
And now we can actually make our request and try to pay for this thing.
Rather than writing out the entire request chain.
Once again, I'll just copy paste some code from the previous test.
It's going to take all that stuff right there.
Copy it.
And then paste it in.
So now instead of giving a randomly generated order ID right here, I'm going to instead use the ID
of the order that we had just saved to the database.
So I'll specify order ID.
And I will expect this to give us back a 401.
Okay.
Let's save that.
Take a look at our tests.
Yep.
Looks good as usual.
Let's just try to make this thing fail.
So how about rather than going and commenting out some of those checks, I'll try to expect a different
status code.
They'll expect how about a 200?
And that should just confirm that we do in fact get back a401.
Yep.
Looks good.
Yeah.
Let's take a pause right here.
When we come back to the next video, we will take care of this last test.